---
layout: post
title:      "Why I decided to study software development"
date:       2020-04-03 17:38:18 +0000
permalink:  why_i_decided_to_study_software_development
---


  So this will be my first ever blog. Why did i decide to study software development? Coding was something that I was always interested in.  I would see someone coding in a movie or on tv or i would see someone open the console for their web browser and start looking at the code for that particular web page. It always piqued my interest because I would wonder to myself "What does all of the stuff mean?" Sadly I never had the ambition and drive to try and teach myself what all of that stuff meant.
 
    As I went through my teenage years and early twenties I bounce around from job to job (I never went to college). The jobs I held were just labor jobs i.e. bus boy, bowling alley attendant, waiter, cell phone sales rep. Then while still in my early twenties, 21 to be exact, I got married and very shortly thereafter had my first child. My life changed pretty drastically. Yet still i didn't pursue any kind of education to eventually land a good career  that would be fulfilling.
 
    Fast forward 12 years I am 33. I have two kids, now 11 and 4 and those boys are my life. I am in the process of a divorce, never thought I would be in this situation.  Finding out that my wife had an affair and the soon to be divorce (don't mess this up for me COVID-19) has changed my life for the better. Most importantly  I gave my life back to Christ, in the midst of my suffering He helped me to not merely find peace but to better myself as a person. My divorce has brought alot of the things in my life into sharp focus. My children for one. I love my kids. I want to provide my kids with the best life possible. I love it when they are at home with me and absolutely hate it when they are gone at their mothers house for 3 days. I realized and took control of alot of my bad habits. I not only stopped doing alot of the things that made me unproductive in all aspects of my life but I have not allowed those habits to creep back. This was always and issue for me as I lacked the discipline to make changes and have them stick. I have pushed myself to be more productive in life over this past year. This past year I pushed myself to learn to cook, keep my house clean as best I can with two boys running around it and spend free time being productive, instead of vegging out on the couch with a Playstation controller in my hand or having a tv show on. 
 
    So we have arrived at why I decided to study software development. I currently work for UPS. I have tried for the last year and a half to secure full time driving job. This past January it seemed like I would get the job but once again I didn’t get it due to an unfortunate set of circumstances involving a windshield. I took that time to start to think about what I was doing with my life. I was on the phone with one of my sisters one night and she began to tell me about how she had done a coding bootcamp and how much fun coding was. I took that conversation to heart and really started looking into coding and bootcamps. Needless to say I got excited about the idea of learning to code. I started to look into bootcamps. A friend of mine who is a Flatiron School alum recommended Flatiron School. I started the application process shortly after.  I won't lie that money has some part to do with why I decided to study software development. Software development seems to offer alot of really well paying jobs. Money is not the sole reason that i want to study software development. I personally do enjoy to create things and see them work. One example of this is, I was running through the Online Shopping Lab in the prep-work for the Software Development course here at Flatiron School, it was taking me two days already to get a couple of the functions to pass the tests. I called that friend  of mine and he helped me along, asking the right questions so I could arrive at the right conclusion for my code. When I finished coding that particular function and it passed all the tests, there was this smile on my face that I couldn't control. It felt so good to have gotten the code right and to pass the test.
 
    Another reason that I want to learn software development is for my two boys. I would like to be able to provide them, as I stated earlier, the best life possible. To me, this means actually being at home with my boys so I can be there to teach them the lessons and the things that they will need for their own lives. Having worked two peak seasons and running the airport route for UPS, I know how much time I would spend at work everyday. This doesn't sit well with me. I feel like a job as a software developer would offer a better life/work balance. I know that no job is perfect and that I might land a job that requires me to work a lot at the office. I like to think about it like this, with the current COVID-19 pandemic, had I been working as a developer already I could be working from home right now. I like the idea of the possibility of working remotely. All of that said, I am studying software development to better my children’s lives and my own life by finding a career that will be fulfilling.
 
 
